Simplify and accelerate coding workflows across Python, Java, C, C++, Go, JavaScript, TypeScript and more.
Empower your development team
IBM watsonx Code Assistant™ leverages Granite models to augment developer skill sets, simplifying and automating your development and modernization efforts.



Generate


Complete


Explain


Test


Transform


Document

Speak plainly, build quickly

Write high-quality code aligned with established conventions using simple, natural language prompts - regardless of your experience level.


Code generation capability of watsonx Code Assistant that displays a dialog screen offering the user a recommendation to create a quicksort algorithm in Python (0:10)
Infuse the entire application lifecycle with AI
Illustration for software development use case
Software development
Get a head start on design

Whether generating original code or refactoring existing assets, watsonx Code Assistant delivers vetted, targeted coding recommendations directly in your IDE.

 Illustration of code validation use case
Code validation  
Offload the repetition


Standardize, streamline and automate the recurring management and support tasks needed for every new—or altered—line of source code.


 

Illustration for Java code upgrade use case
Java code upgrades
Don’t get left behind


Keep pace with the latest version of Java, capitalizing on artificial intelligence to identify gaps and automatically apply the fixes needed to update your codebase.


 

Illustration for java runtime modernization use case
Java runtime modernization  
Breathe new life into current assets

From monoliths to microservices, leverage AI-powered insight and built-in visualization tools to accelerate your transition to a more lightweight, flexible and efficient runtime.

Results from real developers
Developer teams improved workflows, modernized applications, and cut down on time by using watsonx Code Assistant. Learn how they boosted efficiency while maintaining quality.

90%
 time savings on code explanation for one team

Explore the case study 
80%
of legacy Java code transformed automatically

Explore the case study 
59%
average time savings on code documentation

Explore the case study 
Discover the pricing plans for watsonx Code Assistant now!

Explore the options and choose the one that works for you.

See pricing options
Related products